So for our demo,
we'll be gaining some hands-on experience with TDD and creating some mocks,
and we'll be doing this by walking through adding in a
new feature to our room service.
First, let's take a quick tour of the room service.
Room service is a pretty standard Spring Boot microservice.
Under the mono package we have the Room class,
which has some basic attributes describing a hotel room,
and we have annotated the class and attributes with JPA
annotations to handle communication with the database.
Over in the repo package,
we are utilizing the fantastic Spring data library for
handling a lot of our database work.
Simply by extending this Spring Data CrudRepository interface,
we will have a repo that performs all the standard create,
update, read, and delete functionality.
If you are using JPA and Spring in a project you are currently working on,
but aren't using Spring data yet,
I would definitely recommend checking it out as it will save you a significant
amount of work when it comes to interacting with databases.
Within the repo, I added the findByRoomNumber method signature.
Spring Data will by convention at startup build out a method that
implements the code necessary to look up a room by the roomNumber
field from the rooms table in the database.
Pretty sweet, huh?
We will be calling this method later.
Moving on, we have our controller.
Right now it's a pretty standard CRUD RESTful API.
Next, under the exception package, I have a couple of custom exception classes,
RoomServiceException and RoomServiceClient exception.
Both of these are unchecked, or runtime, exceptions.
I've been recently looking at using exceptions a bit more
to handle system behavior and logic.
I know there's a lot of debate and controversy around this practice; however,
I feel that this can help keep interfaces cleaner between layers.
It can also help reduce the amount of logic within classes.
Anyways,
these exception classes are for internal server errors
and invalid client inputs respectively.
Finally, we come to our service class.
Currently, the service class isn't doing much,
just simply passing through the CRUD actions from
the controller to the RoomRepo.
For the booking and customer services we'll be building later in this course,
they will follow a very similar pattern to this RoomService.
So when we work in the services later, they should feel very familiar.
Now we have just got a ticket request to add some new
functionality to our room microservice.
The request is to add the ability to look up a room by a room number.
Additional requirements are return an error message for invalid room number
format and return an error message if no room is found.
Alright, let's start implementing this feature using TDD.
Step one is to create a test.
A shortcut I have learned for creating test classes is
to go to the class you want to test, right-click,
and click Copy Qualified name.
Then under the src/test/java folder, right-click,
select New and Class, and paste the contents into the class Name field.
This updates the package name as well,
placing the class in the same package under the test
directory as it is in the actual application.
Finally, we'll just prefix a class Name with Test.
Alright, so we have our test class.
Let's create a test case.
Our first test case will be a happy path test.
We'll give the test case the name of lookupExistingRoom.
We will bring in our RoomService.
So RoomServiceImpl requires a repository to be passed in.
For this we'll create a stub.
And to make the process of creating stubs,
and any type of test double easier, we will use the Mockito library.
We will make a static import of org.
mockito.
Mockito,
and then call the mock static method and pass in the
class or dependency we want to mock.
In this case, RoomRepo.
class.
We will then set up the behavior of the stub by calling the when method,
and stipulate whenever the findByRoomNumber method
is called with any string value, then we will return an empty room object.
We will then pass the mocked-out RoomRepo into our RoomServiceImpl class.
We will now write out a call to findByRoomNumber.
We will then have Eclipse automatically generate this
method signature in RoomService interface.
RoomServiceImpl is now showing a compile error.
If we go into that class,
we can have Eclipse automatically generate a method stub of findByRoomNumber.
Back in our test class,
we will add the assertion that the room variable should not be null.
Now when we run the test, it will return failed, or red.
So we have our failing test.
Let's implement the code to get it passing.
Back in RoomServiceImpl, the change we need to make is pretty easy,
simply calling the repo method, findByRoomNumber,
and returning its results.
And running that test again, it passes, or shows green.
So we did our first little bit of TDD; however,
there are a few other requirements in the request.
So let's continue the TDD cycle of writing a failing test,
implementing the code to support the test,
getting the test to pass.
Back in the Test class, I've written out the next test case.
This test is going to be checking for an exception to be thrown
when no room matches the room number passed in,
and making sure the exception is returning a properly worded message.
If we go and run this test, we will see it fails.
In the RoomServiceImpl,
we are going to update the code to check to see if room is null.
If room is null,
we will throw an exception with an error message saying
that room number cannot be found.
Let's give the test a run.
And it fails.
Looks like the message is not quite right.
Let's update it and run again.
Another failure.
The message still isn't quite right.
Easy change, and this time the test passes.
Back in the Test class,
I added a new test case to check for when a non-numeric room is
being passed into the findByRoomNumber method.
And of course, this test fails.
In findByRoomNumber in the RoomServiceImpl class,
we will add a check using the Apache StringUtils library to
make sure the argument passed in is numeric.
If it isn't,
we will throw an exception with a message saying that
roomNumber isn't in a valid format.
After a couple of runs of the test case and a few code changes,
we have a passing test.
Finally in a Test class,
I added yet another test case testing for when a null
value is passed and defined by roomNumber.
A quick run shows this test also fails.
So more updates need to be added to findByRoomNumber.
I will again make use of the StringUtils library and have it
check if the argument is null or empty.
First test fails.
Looks like I forgot to add a not in front of the isNullOrEmpty method.
Running the test again returns green, so we are good.
Finally,
let's make sure we didn't introduce any breaks into
our code as we made changes to it.
Great, all the tests return green, so we are good.
There are most test cases we could probably add,
such as checking for a negative room number.
So this would give a pretty good idea of how the TDD process works.
If we wanted to refactor the findByRoomNumber method,
we could do so with much more confidence knowing these
unit tests are here to verify the changes being made do not break existing functionality.